---
tags:
  - xfer
---
# POST /api/admin/xfer/v1


!!! info
    This page was generated by extracting information from a JSON Schema
    data file for the API.  It may be missing some information, or otherwise
    suggest approximate or placeholder values based on information in the
    schema file; this is due to limitations on how that data is extracted
    from the underlying Rust code and into the JSON Schema, and then again
    from there and into these docs.

Allows the system operator to transfer messages from the current
node to some other target node.
The transfer (xfer) can target queues that match
certain criteria, or if no criteria are provided, ALL queues.
Queue selection is based upon the envelope recipient and message
metadata as described in [Queues](../../queues.md).
Messages in the selected queues will be moved into an xfer queue
whose name is based on the target specified by the transfer request.

## Request Body

The request body is required.

The `Content-Type` header must be set to `application/json`.

Describes which messages should be transferred to another
kumomta node.
The criteria apply to the scheduled queue associated
with a given message.

This is an object value, with the following properties:


  * `target` - required `string` (`uri`). Expected to be an HTTP url prefix like:
    `https://host.name:8008`
    `http://127.0.0.1:8000`

  * `campaign` - optional nullable `string`. The campaign name to match. If omitted, any campaign will match.

  * `domain` - optional nullable `string`. The domain name to match. If omitted, any domain will match.

  * `queue_names` - optional array of `string`. If present, queue_names takes precedence over `campaign`,
    `tenant`, and `domain` and specifies the exact set of
    scheduled queue names to which the xfer applies.

  * `reason` - required `string`. Reason to log in the delivery log. Each matching message will log
    with an AdminRebind record to indicate that it was moved from
    its containing queue, and this reason will be included in that record.

  * `routing_domain` - optional nullable `string`. The routing_domain name to match. If omitted, any routing_domain will match.

  * `tenant` - optional nullable `string`. The tenant to match. If omitted, any tenant will match.

### Examples
```json
{
  "campaign": "string",
  "domain": "example.com",
  "queue_names": [
    "string"
  ],
  "reason": "Scaling down",
  "routing_domain": "string",
  "target": "http://127.0.0.1:8000",
  "tenant": "string"
}
```

## Responses
### Status 200
Xfer added successfully


`Content-Type: application/json`


This is an object value, with no properties.

### Examples
```json
{}
```
