---
tags:
  - rebind
---
# POST /api/admin/rebind/v1


!!! info
    This page was generated by extracting information from a JSON Schema
    data file for the API.  It may be missing some information, or otherwise
    suggest approximate or placeholder values based on information in the
    schema file; this is due to limitations on how that data is extracted
    from the underlying Rust code and into the JSON Schema, and then again
    from there and into these docs.

Allows the system operator to administratively rebind messages.
Rebinding can target queues that match
certain criteria, or if no criteria are provided, ALL queues.
Rebinding is moving a message from one scheduled queue into another.
Queue selection is based upon the envelope recipient and message
metadata as described in [Queues](../../queues.md)

This API endpoint is used by the [kcli rebind](../../kcli/rebind.md) command.

## Request Body

The request body is required.

The `Content-Type` header must be set to `application/json`.

Describes which messages should be rebound.
The criteria apply to the scheduled queue associated
with a given message.

This is an object value, with the following properties:


  * `always_flush` - optional `boolean`. If true, make all matched messages immediately eligible for
    delivery.  When false, (the default), only messages whose
    queue has changed will be made immediately eligible.

  * `campaign` - optional nullable `string`. The campaign name to match. If omitted, any campaign will match.

  * `data` - required `object`. The data, a json object with string keys AND values to pass to the
    rebind operation

  * `domain` - optional nullable `string`. The domain name to match. If omitted, any domain will match.

  * `reason` - required `string`. Reason to log in the delivery log. Each matching message will log
    with an AdminRebind record unless you suppress logging.

  * `routing_domain` - optional nullable `string`. The routing_domain name to match. If omitted, any routing_domain will match.

  * `suppress_logging` - optional `boolean`. If true, do not generate AdminRebind delivery logs for matching
    messages.

  * `tenant` - optional nullable `string`. The tenant to match. If omitted, any tenant will match.

  * `trigger_rebind_event` - optional `boolean`. If true, a `rebind` event will be triggered and passed each
    message and the supplied data.
    If false, no event will be triggered and each field in data
    will be applied to the msg metadata, overwriting any previous
    value for that key.

### Examples
```json
{
  "always_flush": false,
  "campaign": "string",
  "data": {},
  "domain": "example.com",
  "reason": "Cleaning up a bad send",
  "routing_domain": "string",
  "suppress_logging": false,
  "tenant": "string",
  "trigger_rebind_event": false
}
```

## Responses
### Status 200
Rebind added successfully


`Content-Type: application/json`


This is an object value, with no properties.

### Examples
```json
{}
```
