---
tags:
  - suspend
---
# POST /api/admin/suspend/v1


!!! note
    This page was generated by extracting information from a JSON Schema
    data file for the API.  It may be missing some information, or otherwise
    suggest approximate or placeholder values based on information in the
    schema file; this is due to limitations on how that data is extracted
    from the underlying Rust code and into the JSON Schema, and then again
    from there and into these docs.

Define a suspension for a scheduled queue

## Request Body

The request body is required.

The `Content-Type` header must be set to `application/json`.


This is an object value, with the following properties:


  * `campaign` - optional nullable `string`. The campaign name to match. If omitted, any campaign will match.

  * `domain` - optional nullable `string`. The domain name to match. If omitted, any domain will match.

  * `duration` - optional nullable `string`. Specifies how long this suspension remains active.

  * `expires` - optional nullable `string` (`date-time`). instead of specifying the duration, you can set an explicit
    expiration timestamp

  * `queue_names` - optional array of `string`. If present, queue_names takes precedence over `campaign`,
    `tenant`, and `domain` and specifies the exact set of
    scheduled queue names to which the suspension applies.

  * `reason` - required `string`. The reason for the suspension

  * `tenant` - optional nullable `string`. The tenant name to match. If omitted, any tenant will match.

### Examples
```json
{
  "campaign": "campaign_name",
  "domain": "example.com",
  "duration": "string",
  "expires": "1990-12-31T23:59:60Z",
  "queue_names": [
    "campaign_name:tenant_name@example.com"
  ],
  "reason": "pause while working on resolving a block with the destination postmaster",
  "tenant": "tenant_name"
}
```

## Responses
### Status 200
Suspended


`Content-Type: application/json`


This is an object value, with the following properties:


  * `id` - required `string` (`uuid`). The id of the suspension. This can be used later to cancel
    the suspension.

### Examples
```json
{
  "id": "9511a32e-66f8-42aa-b151-ccb176df47d9"
}
```
