---
tags: []
---
# GET /metrics.json


!!! info
    This page was generated by extracting information from a JSON Schema
    data file for the API.  It may be missing some information, or otherwise
    suggest approximate or placeholder values based on information in the
    schema file; this is due to limitations on how that data is extracted
    from the underlying Rust code and into the JSON Schema, and then again
    from there and into these docs.

Returns the current set of metrics in a json representation.
This is easier to consume than the Prometheus Exposition format, but
is more resource intensive to produce and parse when the number of
metrics is large, such as for a busy server.
!!! note
    Metrics generally represent data at the current point in time,
    to be consumed by an external system (such as Prometheus) which
    then in turn can build time series data around those metrics.

    In addition, in order to avoid unbounded RAM usage for systems
    with many queues, a number of queue- or service-specific metrics
    will be automatically pruned away when the corresponding queue
    idles out for a period of time.

In the default configuration, access to this endpoint requires *Trusted IP*
authentication.  See the [Authorization](../../access_control.md) documentation
for more information on adjusting ACLs.

See also [metrics](metrics_get.md).

## Metric Documentation

* [Metrics exported by kumod](../../metrics/kumod/index.md)

## Example Data

Here's an example of the shape of the data.  The precise set of
counters will vary as we continue to enhance KumoMTA:

```json
{% include "reference/http/sample-metrics.json" %}
```

## Responses
### Status 200



`Content-Type: application/json`

