# Release 2023.12.28-63cde9c7

!!!note
    While the release is dated `2023.12.28`, that date reflects the date
    of the last change to the code, rather than the date that the release
    was cut and published. This release was published `2024.01.03`.

## Breaking Changes

## Other Changes and Enhancements

* You may now use arbitrary bounce classification labels when defining bounce classification rules. #98
* queue helper: Added `setup_with_options` method that allows skipping the registration of the
  `get_queue_config` event handler. This helps when building a more complex configuration
  policy, such as using the rollup helper. Thanks to @cai-n! #101
* You may now use simple suffix based wildcards like `X-*` to match header
  names to capture in log records. See
  [kumo.configure_local_logs](../reference/kumo/configure_local_logs.md). #74

## Fixes

* MTA-STS policy may fail to match due to trailing periods in mx host names
* Assigning `nil` via `msg:set_meta` would return a userdata wrapper around the
  underlying json `null` value when `msg:get_meta` was called for that key.  We
  now map that as `nil`.
* Various duration options (such as `idle_timeout`) once again accept bare
  integer values to mean that number of seconds as stated in the docs.
  Previously, you would have to use a string like `"10 seconds"`. Now you can
  simply write `10`.  This regressed long long ago, but is now resolved. #108
* ARF parser now accepts historic feedback reports using version `0.1` and
  the deprecated `Received-Date` header.
