# Release 2025.12.02-67ee9e96

## Breaking Changes

 * Enabling
   [`batch_handling="BatchByDomain"`](../reference/kumo/start_esmtp_listener/batch_handling.md)
   will cause [message:recipient](../reference/message/recipient.md) and the
   `recipient` field of [Log Record](../reference/log_record.md) to switch to
   an array holding the list of recipients.  These are *NOT* active by default,
   but if you wish to enable them you should audit your policy and consider
   switching to using
   [message:recipient_list](../reference/message/recipient_list.md) as well as
   review your log processors to ensure that they are able to handle the
   `recipient` field being either an array or a string, or otherwise adjusting
   your log templates accordingly.
 * HTTP injections no longer consider the `Forwarded` header as a source of
   information to populate the `received_from` metadata.  Instead, only the
   directly connecting IP information will be used.  See the [upstream
   issue](https://github.com/imbolc/axum-client-ip/issues/32) for more
   information.
 * Our SMTP client now treats a 552 response during `RCPT TO` as a
   `TransientFailure` instead of a `PermanentFailure` as described by [RFC 5321
   Section
   4.5.3.1.10](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5321#section-4.5.3.1.10).
   If you are employing
   [smtp_server_rewrite_response](../reference/events/smtp_server_rewrite_response.md)
   and happen to rewrite transient codes to `552` then you will find that the
   disposition remains as a `TransientFailure` even after the rewrite.  Our
   recommendation is that you update such rewrite rules to use `550` or `555`
   to avoid this classification.

## Other Changes and Enhancements

 * [msg:check_fix_conformance](../reference/message/check_fix_conformance.md#fixing-8-bit-content)
   now supports optionally detecting and fixing 8-bit charsets.
 * [smtp_server_data](../reference/events/smtp_server_data.md) event enables
   once-per-transaction processing of a message and recipient list modification
   for alias expansion and legal capture.
 * Admin bounces and scheduled queue suspensions can now optionally target the
   complete queue name instead of matching by domain/campaign/tenant.  This is
   useful in certain automation scenarios where you wish to target a specific
   queue precisely.  The kcli commands support a `--queue` option to select the
   queue name, while the API expose that via a `queue_names` field.
 * New [kcli xfer](../reference/kcli/xfer.md) and [kcli
   xfer-cancel](../reference/kcli/xfer-cancel.md) commands enable migration
   of queues to alternative kumomta nodes as part of operational tasks such
   draining a queue for decomissioning or scaling down infrastructure.  These
   commands are building blocks for you to deploy auto-scaling or similar
   functionality within your infrastructure orchestration. The new
   [xfer_message_received](../reference/events/xfer_message_received.md) can be
   used to fixup messages as they are arrive on the target node via xfer.
   `XferOut` and `XferIn` are two new [log record](../reference/log_record.md)
   types associated with message transfers. The kcli commands have
   corresponding HTTP API endpoints:
   [xfer](../reference/rapidoc.md/#post-/api/admin/xfer/v1) and
   [xfer-cancel](../reference/rapidoc.md/#post-/api/admin/xfer/cancel/v1) #311
 * New [kumo.file_type](../reference/kumo.file_type/index.md) module provides
   functions for reasoning about file types.
 * [kumo.amqp.build_client](../reference/kumo.amqp/build_client.md) is
   deprecated in favor of
   [kumo.amqp.basic_publish](../reference/kumo.amqp/basic_publish.md).
 * New [kumo.dns.ptr_host](../reference/kumo.dns/ptr_host.md),
   [kumo.dns.reverse_ip](../reference/kumo.dns/reverse_ip.md),
   [kumo.dns.define_resolver](../reference/kumo.dns/define_resolver.md) and
   [kumo.dns.rbl_lookup](../reference/kumo.dns/rbl_lookup.md) functions. #269
 * new `smtp_server_rejections` counter to track the number of `Rejection` log
   records produced by the smtp listener. The service key is the listener
   address and port, and there is a `total` key that represents the total across
   all listeners.
 * new [kumo.spf.check_msg](../reference/kumo.spf/check_msg.md) convenience
   function for checking SPF and producing Authentication-Results once the
   data has been received.
 * new [kumo.crypto](../reference/kumo.crypto/index.md) module. Thanks to
   @dariomaiocchi! #395
 * new [Time](../reference/kumo.time/Time.md) and
   [TimeDelta](../reference/kumo.time/TimeDelta.md) objects.
 * new
   [smtp_server_rewrite_response](../reference/events/smtp_server_rewrite_response.md)
   event.
 * [msg:append_header](../reference/message/append_header.md) and
   [msg:prepend_header](../reference/message/prepend_header.md) both now accept
   an optional `ENCODE` parameter that opts in to wrapping or quoted-printable
   encoding the value as appropriate.
 * new [headermap:append](../reference/headermap/append.md) method for
   appending a header. This supplements the already available `:prepend`
   method.
 * new [kumo.string.wrap](../reference/string/wrap.md) function that
   enables manual wrapping of strings for use in, for example, header values.
 * new [msg:arc_verify](../reference/message/arc_verify.md) and
   [msg:arc_seal](../reference/message/arc_seal.md) functions. #16
 * Enable thundering herd protection for `dkim_key_cache` and
   `dkim_signer_cache`
 * new [policy-extras.mail_auth](../reference/policy-extras.mail_auth/index.md)
   module for performing mail authentication and producing an aggregate
   `Authentication-Results` header.
 * new [normalize_smtp_response](../reference/string/normalize_smtp_response.md)
   lua function and [jinja filter](../reference/template/normalize_smtp_response.md).
 * The default value for
   [prohibited_hosts](../reference/kumo/make_egress_path/prohibited_hosts.md)
   now also includes the IPv4 and IPv6 Any addresses.
 * [kumo.version](../reference/kumo/version.md) exposes the kumo version
   number to your policy scripts, allowing you to conditionally phrase them
   based on the running version of kumo.
 * [kumo.digest.sha225](../reference/kumo.digest/sha224.md),
   [kumo.digest.sha3_256](../reference/kumo.digest/sha3_256.md),
   [kumo.digest.sha3_384](../reference/kumo.digest/sha3_384.md) and
   [kumo.digest.sha3_512](../reference/kumo.digest/sha3_512.md) digest functions.
 * [kumo.digest.hmac_sha1](../reference/kumo.digest/hmac_sha1.md),
   [kumo.digest.hmac_sha224](../reference/kumo.digest/hmac_sha224.md),
   [kumo.digest.hamc_sha256](../reference/kumo.digest/hmac_sha256.md),
   [kumo.digest.hmac_sha384](../reference/kumo.digest/hmac_sha384.md) and
   [kumo.digest.hmac_sha512](../reference/kumo.digest/hmac_sha512.md) HMAC functions.
 * [kumo.start_esmtp_listener.require_proxy_protocol](../reference/kumo/start_esmtp_listener/require_proxy_protocol.md)
   enables support for the HA Proxy Protocol in the ESMTP listener, allowing it
   to pass through the `received_from` and `received_via` metadata from the
   proxy. Thanks to @Solvik and @cai-n! #440
 * `traffic-gen` now accepts a `--header` flag to add arbitrary
   headers to generated messages when simulating traffic, useful for testing
   queue-specific flows or measuring latency impacts introduced
   by custom header manipulation. Thanks to @cristian-porta! #434
 * You may now specify the `template_dialect` when using the HTTP injection
   API to select between `Jinja`, `Handlebars` or `Static`.  Similarly,
   `kumo.string.eval_template` now supports an optional dialect parameter.
 * You may now use an event-based callback to perform parameterized data
   fetching in a [keysource](../reference/keysource.md#callbackevent-based-data-source)
 * New [kumo.crypto.aws_sign_v4](../reference/kumo.crypto/aws_sign_v4.md)
   function for working with AWS V4 signatures. Thanks to @AdityaAudi! #457

## Fixes

 * smtp server would incorrectly return a 451 instead of a 452 status when
   `max_recipients_per_message` or `max_messages_per_connection` limits
   were exceeded.
 * spf: a `NoRecordsFound` response from DNS during an `exists:` rule check
   could cause the result to incorrectly be reported a `temperror`
 * spf: `%{h}` macro expansion could incorrectly enclose the domain in double quotes
 * spf: relax macro parsing to allow spaces in, for example, explanation txt records
 * kumo.spf.check_host: `%{h}` will be assumed to have the value of the
   `domain` field when `sender` is not set, as `ehlo_domain` won't be set in
   the connection context until after `smtp_server_ehlo` returns successfully.
 * [kumo.start_esmtp_listener.line_length_hard_limit](../reference/kumo/start_esmtp_listener/line_length_hard_limit.md)
   could by off-by-two in certain cases when applied to DATA, and could
   sometimes allow up to 1024 bytes for a single SMTP command outside of DATA,
   even though the limit was set smaller.
 * Message builder API didn't quote every possible character that needed to be
   quoted in the display name of a mailbox. #428
 * Incorrectly treated a 552 as a transient failure for non-RCPT-TO 552
   responses. #431
 * spf: we now populate `smtp.mailfrom` in the Authentication-Results props map.
 * [keysource](../reference/keysource.md) now supports inline binary bytes
   being passed via `key_data`.  Previously, only UTF-8 strings could be
   passed that way.
 * [keysource](../reference/keysource.md) now supports callback/event based
   data loading, which is similar to inline `key_data`, but allows for more
   efficient cache keys that use less RAM.
 * dkim verification would incorrectly treat `i=@fexample.net` as a valid
   subdomain of `d=example.net`.
 * [mx_list](../reference/kumo/make_queue_config/protocol.md) says that
   the list of addresses are tried in the order specified, but they were
   incorrectly tried in the reverse of that order (because internally that list
   is placed into a LIFO stack).  This has now been corrected and the
   connection plan now follows the ordering of your `mx_list`.  You might
   consider using [kumo.version](../reference/kumo/version.md) to accommodate
   this change in behavior.
 * [Metrics](../reference/http/metrics.md) with multiple labels, such as
   `connection_count`, didn't respect the `prefix=PREFIX` URL parameter when
   preparing the `/metrics` prometheus text exposition output.

