# BounceV1ListEntry

!!! note
    This page was generated by extracting information from a JSON Schema
    data file for the API.  It may be missing some information, or otherwise
    suggest approximate or placeholder values based on information in the
    schema file; this is due to limitations on how that data is extracted
    from the underlying Rust code and into the JSON Schema, and then again
    from there and into these docs.


This is an object value, with the following properties:


  * `bounced` - required `object`. A map of queue name to number of bounced messages that
    were processed by this entry since it was created.

  * `campaign` - optional nullable `string`. The campaign field of the original request, if any.

  * `domain` - optional nullable `string`. The domain field of the original request, if any.

  * `duration` - required `string`. The time remaining until this entry expires and is automatically
    removed.

  * `id` - required `string` (`uuid`). The id of this bounce rule. Corresponds to the `id` field
    returned by the originating request that set up the bounce,
    and can be used to identify this particular entry if you
    wish to delete it later.

  * `reason` - required `string`. The reason field of the original request

  * `routing_domain` - optional nullable `string`. The routing_domain field of the original request, if any.

  * `tenant` - optional nullable `string`. The tenant field of the original request, if any.

  * `total_bounced` - required `integer`. The sum of the number of bounced messages reported by
    the `bounced` field.

### Examples
```json
{
  "bounced": {
    "gmail.com": 200,
    "yahoo.com": 100
  },
  "campaign": "campaign_name",
  "domain": "example.com",
  "duration": "string",
  "id": "552016f1-08e7-4e90-9da3-fd5c25acd069",
  "reason": "cleaning up a bad send",
  "routing_domain": "routing_domain.com",
  "tenant": "tenant_name",
  "total_bounced": 42
}
```
