# BounceV1Response

!!! note
    This page was generated by extracting information from a JSON Schema
    data file for the API.  It may be missing some information, or otherwise
    suggest approximate or placeholder values based on information in the
    schema file; this is due to limitations on how that data is extracted
    from the underlying Rust code and into the JSON Schema, and then again
    from there and into these docs.


This is an object value, with the following properties:


  * `bounced` - required `object`. Deprecated: this field is no longer populated, as bounces
    are now always asynchronous. In earlier versions the following
    applies:
    
    A map of queue name to number of bounced messages that
    were processed as part of the initial sweep.
    Additional bounces may be generated if/when other messages
    that match the rule are discovered, but those obviously
    cannot be reported in the context of the initial request.

  * `id` - required `string` (`uuid`). The id of the bounce rule that was registered.
    This can be used later to delete the rule if desired.

  * `total_bounced` - required `integer`. Deprecated: this field is no longer populated, as bounces are
    now always asynchronous. In earlier versions the following applies:
    
    The sum of the number of bounced messages reported by
    the `bounced` field.

### Examples
```json
{
  "bounced": {
    "gmail.com": 200,
    "yahoo.com": 100
  },
  "id": "552016f1-08e7-4e90-9da3-fd5c25acd069",
  "total_bounced": 300
}
```
