# XferV1Request

!!! info
    This page was generated by extracting information from a JSON Schema
    data file for the API.  It may be missing some information, or otherwise
    suggest approximate or placeholder values based on information in the
    schema file; this is due to limitations on how that data is extracted
    from the underlying Rust code and into the JSON Schema, and then again
    from there and into these docs.

Describes which messages should be transferred to another
kumomta node.
The criteria apply to the scheduled queue associated
with a given message.

This is an object value, with the following properties:

  * The fields allowed by [XferProtocol](XferProtocol.md)

  * `campaign` - optional nullable `string`. The campaign name to match. If omitted, any campaign will match.

  * `domain` - optional nullable `string`. The domain name to match. If omitted, any domain will match.

  * `queue_names` - optional array of `string`. If present, queue_names takes precedence over `campaign`,
    `tenant`, and `domain` and specifies the exact set of
    scheduled queue names to which the xfer applies.

  * `reason` - required `string`. Reason to log in the delivery log. Each matching message will log
    with an AdminRebind record to indicate that it was moved from
    its containing queue, and this reason will be included in that record.

  * `routing_domain` - optional nullable `string`. The routing_domain name to match. If omitted, any routing_domain will match.

  * `tenant` - optional nullable `string`. The tenant to match. If omitted, any tenant will match.

### Examples
```json
{
  "campaign": "string",
  "domain": "example.com",
  "queue_names": [
    "string"
  ],
  "reason": "Scaling down",
  "routing_domain": "string",
  "tenant": "string"
}
```
